# How to Run

**Anaylze Dataset:** run python3 run_01_analyze_dataset.py  
**Create tf-idf model:** run python3 run_02_index_creation.py  
**Create bm25 model:** run python3 run_03_index_creation_bm25.py  
**Search for a single query using tf-idf model:** run python3 run_04_search_query.py  
**Search for a single query using bm25 model:** run python3 run_05_search_query_bm25.py  
**Evaluate tf-idf model with the dataset:** run python3 run_06_evaluate.py  
**Evaluate bm25 model with the dataset:** run python3 run_07_evaluate_bm25.py  
**Create statistics using both models:** run python3 run_08_evaluate_statistics.py  
**Start user-interface using tf-idf model:** run python3 run_09_user_interaction.py  
**Start user-interface using bm25 model:** run python3 run_10_user_interaction_bm25.py  

# news_retrieval
required nltk modules:
- punkt
- stopwords

Thanks to the development of internet technologies, we are provided with
a great amount of information. However, since this information is so
vast, the inability to process this huge amount of data becomes more and
more clear. Online news retrieval also suffers from these problems. The
data in this domain is unstructured and there is huge amount of data. In
this paper, we design and implement a Turkish news retrieval system
called “Haberim Var”. The goal of this system is to accurately retrieve
the latest Turkish news articles. We build our own news dataset using
well known Turkish news sources. We implement text acquisition, index
creation, query-engine, user interface and evaluation components. In
order to evaluate our system, we use MRR metric. Since this dataset
doesn’t contain evaluation data, article titles are used as
pseudo-queries. Results show that our system gives satisfying results in
terms of both effectiveness and efficiency. Using “Haberim Var”, users
are able to find the Turkish news articles they are looking for.

Information Retrieval, Turkish News Dataset, Text Acquisition, Index
Creation, Query-Engine, User Interface, Evaluation, MRR...

Introduction
============

As information on web increases, it is getting more difficult for users
to find the information they are looking for. In this paper, we design
and implement a Turkish news retrieval system called “Haberim Var”. The
goal of this project is to accurately retrieve the latest news articles
from well-known Turkish news sources. We believe many existing retrieval
systems already use these techniques @irbook. However, there has been
little research on retrieval of Turkish news. Turkish language possesses
specific challenges. Furthermore, news retrieval is still far from a
solved problem and there is still room for improvements @newsir16.

There are some applications such as Bundle @bundle, MSN @msn, Google
News @google and Yandex News @yandex that provide their users with some
kind news information. However; Bundle and MSN don’t provides any search
functionality. Yandex News is not available in Turkish. Finally,
although, Google News provides specific news search capabilities, it is
not national and it is not totally accurate for Turkish.

We aim to retrieve the latest Turkish news articles. To achieve this, we
design and implement several components including; text acquisition,
index creation, query-engine, user interface and evaluation. These
components are utilized at different stages of our retrieval process.

-   **Text acquisition** identifies and downloads the latest news
    articles from the news sources,

-   **Index creation** transform documents into searchable index terms.

-   **Query-engine** generates a ranked list of documents, given a
    single query.

-   **User interaction** provides simple and elegant interfaces for
    users.

-   **Evaluation** measures the system performance.

We implement Bag of Words and BM25 retrieval models. We use MRR metric
to evaluate our system. Since our dataset doesn’t contain evaluation
data, we use article titles are as pseudo queries. Results show that
BM25 gives better results in terms of both effectiveness and efficiency
than Bag of Words approach.

The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In Section II, we
explain the problem definition. In Section III, we survey the similar
retrieval systems. Our architecture is detailed in Section IV. In
Section V, we give details about our dataset. In Section VI, we explain
the evaluation strategy and we present our results. Finally, we conclude
our work in Section VIII.

PROBLEM DEFINITION
==================

In modern information retrieval systems, in order to retrieve the
documents, a relevance score is computed according to a statistical
procedure. Then, top ranking documents are retrieved and presented to
user.

There has been many different approaches for retrieval of the documents.
One approach has been to calculate a similarity score between the query
and the documents. The BM25 weighting model is assumed to be one of the
most successful of this approach. In this retrieval model, the relevance
score is computed according to the following equation.

In this equation, the aim is to maximize the (q,d) function which
represents the term-document similarity. q is the query and d is the
document. tf and are the document term frequency and the IDF factor. dl
and are the document length and average document length. is query-only
weight. Finally, b and k1 are the parameters.

RELATED WORK
============

Information Retrieval (IR) applied to news has been a popular research
area. There have been many different approaches @irbook. Catena et al.
@enhanced_news_retrieval introduce a variant of the well-known BM25
model, called BM25 Passage (BM25P). BM25P is specifically build to
improve the effectiveness of a retrieval system in specifically news
domain. They point out that most relevant terms are primarily
concentrated at the beginning and at the end of news articles. Using
this idea, they calculate the relevance score according to linear
combination of term frequencies of each passage in the articles. They
show that their method gives better results than BM25 in term of both
NDCG and MRR.

Architecture
============

In this section we describe the architecture of our system. The
architecture of “Haberim Var” is shown in Figure 1.

“Haberim Var” is composed of six main components. These components are
text acquisition, knowledge database, index creation, query engine, user
interaction and evaluation. Furthermore, we implement two different
retrieval models. These models are Bag of Words approach and BM25
weighting model.

Text Acquisition
----------------

The text acquisition component of “Haberim Var” is responsible for
identifying and downloading the latest news sources from the news
sources. It crawls the web and downloads the latest news articles. It
builds the knowledge database that contains the news articles and their
metadata. Text acquisition component should be executed on regular basis
to update the knowledge database. Otherwise news collection of “Haberim
Var” may become stale. Furthermore, text acquisition component is
composed of two sub-components. These are crawler and converter.

### Crawler

Crawler is responsible for identifying the news articles on web. Given a
news source URL, it follows the paths and discovers the news articles.
If, it classifies these sources as news articles, it saves them into
knowledge database.

### Converter

“Haberim Var” require documents to be in the form of plain text.
However, the documents found by the crawler is usually in the form of
HTML. Hence, converter is responsible for converting HTML pages into
plain text format.

Knowledge Database
------------------

The knowledge database is the component where all documents and their
metadata are stored. In “Haberim Var”, documents and their metadata are
stored in the disk as JSON files.

Index Creation
--------------

Given the large number of documents, index creation component is
responsible for transforming documents into searchable index terms. In
this process, statistical information about the words within the
documents are extracted. This information is later used by the
query-engine component to rank the documents. The output of index
creation component is a searchable file that is stored on disk. Since,
large numbers of news articles are stored and indexed in “Haberim Var”,
index creation component needs to be both effective and efficient.

Index creation component is composed of four different sub-components.
These are parser, stopping, stemming and inversion.

### Parser

Parser is responsible for creating a sequence of tokens from the news
articles. In “Haberim Var” tokens correspond to single words.

### Stopping

The stopping is responsible for removing common words from the text. The
words contained in all documents do not give much information about
topics covered in the news articles. Hence, removing them usually has no
or little effect. In “Haberim Var”, most common Turkish words are
removed in order to reduce the size of our indexes.

### Stemming

Stemming is responsible for grouping words that are derived from the
same stem. For example; “araba”, “arabalar”, and “arabam” are all
converted into same stem “araba”. By replacing these words with their
stem, The likelihood of matching queries with their relevant documents
is increased.

### Inversion

The inversion is responsible for changing document-term information into
term-document information. This type of conversation is required for
system to be efficient.

Query-Engine
------------

The query-engine component is responsible for generating a ranked list
of documents. Given the query, it returns the list of relevant news
articles and their scores. This process is also called ranking. It must
be both effective and efficient. Similar to index creation; parser,
stopping and stemming sub-components are executed to make the document
terms and query terms in the same format.

User Interaction
----------------

The user interaction component provides simple and elegant user
interface to users to type their query and see the top ranking
documents. It accepts a query from the user, and returns the top ranked
news articles from the query-engine.

User interaction is composed of two sub-components. These are the
query-interface and the results-interface.

### The Query-Interface

The query-interface provides an interface for users to type their query.
This interface is shown in the Figure 2.

Users type their query in the input field. When they click the search
button, the query is sent to the query-engine and the results-interface
is shown.

### The Results-Interface

The results-interface is responsible for displaying the retrieved
documents received from the query-engine. This interface is shown in the
Figure 3.

Top ranked news articles, their images and their scores are presented to
the user. Also, some snippets are generated in order to give more
information about the articles.

DATASET
=======

There are many English news retrieval datasets such as; Aquaint
@aquaint, Signal @signal and RCV1 @rcv1. Aquaint consists of newswire
text data in English, drawn from three sources: the Xinhua News Service,
the New York Times News Service, and the Associated Press Worldstream
News Service. Signal is released to facilitate conducting research on
news articles. It is intended to serve the community for research on
news retrieval in general. Finally, RCV1 is Reuters’s news dataset and
it contains news stories for use in research and development of in
natural language processing, information retrieval, and machine learning
systems.

Although there are several English news retrieval datasets, there aren’t
many Turkish news retrieval datasets. For this reason, we build our own
Turkish news dataset using several Turkish news sources. The statistics
about our Turkish news dataset are shown in the Table 1.

We download around 2.000 articles from six different Turkish news
sources. The average query (title) length and the average article length
of our dataset are also presented in the table.

EVALUATION
==========

A retrieval system’s performance can be measured in terms of
effectiveness and efficiency @irbook. A system is effective if it is
able to retrieve the most relevant set of documents. And, a system is
efficient if documents are retrieved as quickly as possible. We evaluate
our system in terms of both effectiveness and efficiency.

Effectiveness
-------------

We use MRR metric to evaluate our system in terms of effectiveness. The
Reciprocal Rank (RR) in information retrieval calculates the reciprocal
rank at which the first relevant document is retrieved @mrr. RR is 1 if
the first relevant document is retrieved at first rank. RR is 0.5 if the
first relevant document is retrieved at the second rank, and so on. When
averaged across all of the queries, this measure is called the Mean
Reciprocal Rank (MRR). MRR score is computed according to the following
equation.

In this equation, rank~i~ refers to the rank position of the first
relevant document. And Q refers to the queries. The mean of RR scores is
calculated.

Since our dataset do not provide any evaluation data, we use same
methodology used by Catena et al. @enhanced_news_retrieval. We use
article titles as queries. We assume that, there is only one relevant
news article for each query and it is the article the title belongs to.
All other articles are considered to be non-relevant. Effectiveness
scores of our Bag of Words and BM25 approaches are shown in the Table
2.

The table shows that BM25 weighting model gives almost 2 times better
results than Bag of Words approach. Also, it is clear that scores are
similar for different news sources.

Efficiency
----------

The efficiency of a retrieval system can be measured by monitoring the
system performance. A variety of measurements are used, such as response
time and throughput @irbook. We evaluate the efficiency of our system by
measuring the index creation and the retrieval times. Measured times of
“Haberim Var” are shown in the Table 3.

Retrieval times are measured using every article as a query. Table shows
that BM25 weighting model is way more efficient than Bag of Words
approach in terms of both index creation and retrieval. Bag of Words
approach takes too much time for both of these processes.

CONCLUSION
==========

There is an excessive amount text on web. And people, somehow, need to
find the information they are looking for. This raises the question of
how to best retrieve the best news document set for a given query. Many
existing methods are developed to solve this problem. In this paper, we
design and implement a Turkish news retrieval system. We aim to
accurately retrieve the latest Turkish news articles. We build our own
news dataset and implement text acquisition, index creation,
query-engine, user interface and evaluation components. In order to
evaluate our system, we use MRR metric and use article titles as
pseudo-queries. Results show that BM25 weighting model gives better
results than Bag of Words approach. Using “Haberim Var”, users are able
to find the latest Turkish news articles they are looking for.
